Focusing our attention on two dimensions for the moment,
you have a horizontal line called the x-axis and a vertical line called the y-axis.
The place where they intersect is called the origin,
which you should think of as the center of space and the root of all vectors.
After choosing an arbitrary length represent one,
you make tick marks on each axis to represent this distance.
When I want to convey the idea of 2D space as a whole,
which you'll see comes up a lot in these videos,
I'll extend these tick marks to make grid lines,
but right now they'll actually get a little bit in the way.
The coordinates of a vector is a pair of numbers that basically gives
instructions for how to get from the tail of that vector at the origin to it's tip.
The first number tells you how far to walk along the x-axis.
Positive numbers indicating rightward motion,
negative numbers indicating leftward motion,
and the second number tells you how far to walk parallel to the y-axis after that.
Positive numbers indicating upward motion,
and negative numbers indicating downward motion.
To distinguish vectors from points,
the convention is to write this pair of numbers
vertically with square brackets around them.
Every pair of numbers gives you one and only one vector,
and every vector is associated with one and only one pair of numbers.
What about in 3-dimensions?
Well, you add a third axis called the z-axis which is
perpendicular to both the x and y axis and in this case,
each vector is associated with an ordered triplet of numbers.
The first tells you how far to move along the x-axis,
the second tells you how far to move parallel to the y-axis and
the third one tells you how far to then move parallel to this new z-axis.
Every triplet of numbers gives you one unique vector in space.
And every vector in space gives you exactly one triplet of numbers.